.TH CHA 1
.SH NAME
cha - the Chawan text-mode browser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cha
[\fBoptions\fR]
[\fIURL(s) \fRor \fIfile(s)\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Chawan is a text-mode browser.  It can be used as a pager, or as a
web/(S)FTP/gopher/gemini/file browser.  It understands HTML and CSS,
and when enabled by the user, can also execute JavaScript and display
images (on terminals supporting Sixel or the Kitty image protocol.)

Chawan can also be used as a general text-based document viewer as
described in \fBcha-mailcap\fR(5), or as a hyperlinked man page viewer
using \fBmancha\fR(1).

This document describes the invocation of Chawan.  For a list of default
keybindings, type \fIcha about:chawan\fR.  For a detailed description of
the configuration format, see \fBcha-config\fR(5).

.SH ARGUMENTS
On invocation, Chawan attempts to open all URL/file arguments supplied.
If no URLs could successfully be opened, Chawan exits automatically.

Chawan may also be started without specifying a file, if a file is provided
through a pipe. In this case, you can specify the content type using the
\fB-T\fR switch.

.SH OPTIONS
All command line options have short forms (e.g. \fB\-d\fR) and long
forms (e.g. \fB\-\-dump\fR).

Long forms must be introduced with two dashes; when only a single
dash is provided, each letter is parsed as a separate short form.

In short form, it is also valid to provide values to arguments without a
subsequent space.  For example, \fB\-obuffer.images=true\fR is valid.

.TP
\fB\-c, \-\-css\fR \fIstylesheet\fR
Temporarily modify the user stylesheet.  If a user stylesheet is already
being used, the stylesheet given is appended to that.
.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-dump\fR
Start in headless mode, and sequentially print the opened files to
stdout.  This option is implicitly enabled if stdout is not a tty
(e.g. when piping \fIcha\fR output).
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Print a short version of this page, then exit.
.TP
\fB\-o, \-\-opt\fR \fIconfig\fR
Pass temporary configuration options.  This accepts the configuration
format described in \fBcha-config\fR(5), so the passed string must
be valid TOML.

To ease specifying string parameters, unrecognized bare keywords are
converted to strings.  So this works:
.br
\fB--opt\fR display.color-mode=\fIeight-bit\fR.
.br
However, symbols and words starting with a number must still be quoted.
(This means that you have to quote them twice to bypass shell quoting.)
.TP
\fB\-r, \-\-run\fR \fIscript\fR/\fIfile\fR
Execute the string provided as a JS script, or execute the supplied JS
file.  If the file ends in .mjs, it is executed as an ES module.
.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-version\fR
Print information about the browser's version, then exit.
.TP
\fB\-C, \-\-config\fR \fIfile\fR
Override the default configuration search path.  Both absolute and
relative paths are allowed.
.TP
\fB\-I, \-\-input-charset\fR \fIcharset\fR
Override the character set of all input files.  Useful when Chawan is
incorrectly recognizing the input character set.

(If this happens often, consider changing the default input charset
recognition list \fIencoding.document-charset\fR in the configuration.)
.TP
\fB\-M, \-\-monochrome\fR
Force monochrome output.  Formatting (bold/italic/etc.) is not affected.
This is a shortcut for \fB\-o display.color\-mode=\fImonochrome\fR.
.TP
\fB\-O, \-\-output-charset\fR \fIcharset\fR
Override the output character set.  This is a shortcut for
\fB\-o encoding.display\-charset=\fIcharset\fR.
.TP
\fB\-T, \-\-type\fR \fIcontent-type\fR
Override the content type of all input files.  Useful when the content
type cannot be guessed from the file extension, or when reading a
non-plaintext file from stdin.
.TP
\fB\-V, \-\-visual\fR
When no files/URLs are passed, open the page specified in
\fIstart.visual-home\fR instead of printing a help screen.
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
Interpret all following arguments as files.  For example, you can open a
file named \fI\-o\fR, using \fIcha \fB--\fR \fI-o\fR.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
Certain environment variables are read and used by Chawan.

.TP
\fBTMPDIR\fR
When set, the default configuration stores temporary files inside this
directory (and \fI/tmp/cha-tmp-user\fR otherwise.)
.TP
\fBHTTP_HOME\fR, \fBWWW_HOME\fR
When set, Chawan starts in visual mode by default and opens the page
specified by one of these variables.  \fBHTTP_HOME\fR takes precedence
over \fBWWW_HOME\fR.
.TP
\fBCHA_DIR\fR
When set, it switches the configuration directory to the path specified.
.TP
\fBCOLORTERM\fR
When set to \fI24bit\fR or \fItruecolor\fR, and the
\fIdisplay.color-mode\fR configuration option is set to \fIauto\fR,
Chawan sets the color mode to true color.
.TP
\fBTERM\fR
Used by Chawan to determine which termcap entry to load.  When not set,
defaults to \fIxterm\fR.
.TP
\fBEDITOR\fR
Used to determine the editor to use when the \fIexternal.editor\fR
configuration option is not set.
.TP
\fBLINES, COLUMNS\fR
Used as fallback values when window size detection fails.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmancha\fR(1), \fBcha-config\fR(5), \fBcha-mailcap\fR(5), \fBcha-mime.types\fR(5),
.br
\fBcha-localcgi\fR(5), \fBcha-urimethodmap\fR(5), \fBcha-protocols\fR(7),
.br
\fBcha-image\fR(7), \fBcha-css\fR(7), \fBcha-troubleshooting\fR(7), \fBcha-terminal\fR(7)
